# Rock-Vs-Mine-Prediction-Using-Sonar-Data
This project accurately predicts using the sonar data weather the underwater object outside the Submarine is a Rock or a Mine.

# Project Overview
Sonar stands for Sound Navigation and Ranging. It used mainly by ships, submarines and other types of marine vehicles for exploring and mapping the sound waves travelling in the water. A sonar device acts as both the sender and the receiver of the signal. The sonar device sends out ultrasound waves and detect the waves after they reflect back from underwater objects. This method is used because the sound waves travel much farther than the radar and the light waves. The distance of underwater can be calculated with the help of speed of sound in the water and the time it takes to come back to the sonar device after coming in contact with underwater object. The sound waves have the capacity to travel for hundreds of miles underwater with an intensity of 140 decibels as far as 300 miles from the source.

For practical purpose the sonar data can be easily collected with the help of a sonar device, an empty metallic cylinder and a rock. In this project I have used the sonar data to build a Machine Learning Model to predict wheatear the underwater object being examined is a Rock or a Mine. For this project I have collected the Sonar Data that I downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/code/mattcarter865/sonar-mines-vs-rocks . This dataset has 208 rows and 61 columns where 60 columns has the sonar data and the 61th column is the target column which contains the labels ‘R’ and ‘M’ where R stands for Rock and M stands for Mine. 
